The Bible book of Daniel
is filled with imagery,
visions,
and amazing scenery and architecture.
All of it serves
to teach readers about the times we live in now
and how we can faithfully serve Jehovah.
The team that made
Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith
had to portray these amazing things on film.
How did they do it?
Early concept art
was made to help in the development
of the many visual effects scenes.
The architecture and aesthetics of Babylon
were quite different
from what the Israelites were used to.
The sets needed to be designed in a way
that helped convey
what it was like to be captured
and brought to a foreign land.
The production design and sets
and props departments built 360-degree sets,
which made for an immersive environment.
All of the other wise men are unable to make
the interpretation known to me.
But you are able to do so.
Many costumes and props
were carefully handmade for the production.
Spearheads were hand-forged.
Most of the filming was done
at Mount Ebo Studios in Brewster, New York.
Some additional scenes
were filmed in nearby locations
and in Florida.
You need to rest.
Several miniature sets were built,
including a ziggurat,
and then actors were filmed
in front of a green screen
and inserted into the final shots.
As filming was completed,
scenes were edited together
and the visual-effects team
went to work on many specialized shots.
Digital models of people and animals
were animated and combined
with footage of real environments
to make scenes
that would have been impossible to film otherwise.
For example,
a digital model was made of the immense image
in King Nebuchadnezzar’s dream.
The team researched the characteristics
of the actual materials described
in the Scriptures,
such as metals and rocks,
so that when the image falls,
it appears realistic and believable.
Just look at the results of thousands of hours
spent modeling,
animating, simulating,
rendering, and compositing!
Music and sound effects add the final touches.
“What do you see?”
Jehovah asked the prophet Amos.
What Amos saw taught him important lessons.
In the drama Daniel: A Lifetime of Faith,
what did you see?
And more important, what did you learn?